Have you ever had Japanese purin? Purin, or pudding, is essentially Japanese crème caramel or flan, made with the same sort of exacting perfection in which Japan treats all culinary deliciousness. You might know it as caramel custard, egg pudding, or caramel pudding, but no matter what you call it, it’s insanely good.

Purin is both the most seductive and the most unassuming dessert I know. The top glistens with glossy deep dark caramel that gives way to a impossibly jiggly soft-yet-firm creamy base that just begs to be cut into with a spoon. At the same time, most people tend to pass over purin in favor of [fluffy Japanese pancakes](https://iamafoodblog.com/tokyo-food-guide-where-to-eat-fluffy-japanese-pancakes-in-tokyo/), [Japanese cheesecake](https://iamafoodblog.com/the-best-japanese-cheesecake-recipe/), or [taiyaki](https://iamafoodblog.com/tokyo-food-guide-what-and-where-to-eat-in-tokyo-snack-edition/). Still, something about purin speaks to a deep need in me. I have deep feels for purin.

I miss Japan. I miss it an unreasonable amount, considering. It seems like travel to Tokyo won’t be back for a while (sob!) and while I was hoping to post this when it would be a helpful guide to those traveling, I’ve decided that I want to luxuriate a little bit in all the purins I’ve eaten in the past. Indulge me, if you will, and read along for my search for the perfect purin in Tokyo.

# **What is purin?**

To talk about purin, we kind of need to go way back to the beginning of how Japan got into yōgashi, or Western style sweets and desserts. Japan’s very first experience with yōgashi happened with the Portuguese in the 16th century. From there, castella sponge cake (kasutera) became incredibly popular. They’re still popular today, being one of the top omiyage (edible souvenirs) from Nagasaki. Once Western-style sweets became popular, vanilla custard based ones became especially so, the most popular being purin, of course.

“Purin”, derived from the English “pudding,” was initially a luxury food due to the lack of dairy after World War II. After dairy became more available, purin started showing up everywhere, from ultra luxe *purin a la mode* at hotels to little plastic cups in combini convenience stores. Those little fluted plastic cups of Pucchin Purin have been around since the early seventies and are to Japan what chocolate Snack Packs are to North Americans.

# **Purin’s cult following**

Purin is really popular in Japan. There are purin flavored snacks, chocolates, candies, ice cream, you name it. There’s even a Sanrio character called Pompompurin, a chubby little golden retriever with a caramel beret. Japanese people love purin; so much so that there is even a [giant make-it-at-home “king pudding” gelatin pudding mix with pre-made caramel that comes in a bucket](https://amzn.to/3fWEUgR) that you use as the pudding mold. It makes more purin than you could ever know what to do with and to be honest, I kind of wanted to try it.

Purin is definitely one of those beloved nostalgic desserts and lately, purin is becoming even more trendy. Purin kind of has a cult following these days: there are instagrams dedicated to purin, hours long line ups, and premium purins that sell out long before you have even heard of them. Part of the appeal is that purin can be, like many Japanese foods, both high and low end. There are literally dozens of affordable purins you can buy at the grocery store, as well as dedicated high end purin stores. You can even make purin at home.

Because purin is something that both children and adults enjoy, I feel like it’s a true part of Japanese culture, much like [ramen](https://iamafoodblog.com/tokyo-ramen-guide-eat-wantan-men-wonton-ramen/), [sushi](https://iamafoodblog.com/tokyo-food-guide-sushi-tokami-like-eat-high-end-tokyo-sushi/), and [shokupan](https://iamafoodblog.com/the-best-places-in-tokyo-for-fluffy-japanese-shokupan-bread/). The rich culture behind purin is partially why I set out on a journey to search for the best purin in Tokyo. But also, it was just because I love purin. I can spend hours on the purin hashtag on Instagram, dreaming of eating purin. There’s something about the way it looks, the way it jiggles, and the joy I get when I use one of those fancy paddle-like purin spoons to carve out that first bite that brings me an immeasurable amount of joy.

# **Our search for the perfect purin**

Mike by the way, does not share my purin obsession, but he was more than willing partner in purin. Partly because I think he wanted to make me happy and partly because I think he thought it was so funny that purin turned out to be a lot more complicated than I thought.

Anyway, we were lucky enough to spend a large chunk of time in Japan earlier this year before the pandemic hit. We spent our days wandering with plenty of breaks for snacks. It’s my all time favorite way to explore a city and my love for purin was growing as much as I was. I was diving deeper into my obsession daily by feeding my addiction with combini (convenience store) purin, but one day, while we were at a bookstore, I saw the cutest little paperback book. It had rows and rows of stylized illustrated puddings on the cover and I spent 20 minutes flipping through the pages before Mike gently told me that I should buy it instead of creepily drooling at the photos.

# **My purin bible**

The pudding book was perfection: full color, chock-full of pictures, all about the famous puddings of Tokyo. Yes, there are famous puddings in Tokyo. And this book was going to show me all of them. To say I was excited was an understatement. With the help of trusty google translate (thank goodness for that scan and translate feature, shout to the devs at google translate!) I made a little purin map, in hopes that we would wander across one (or seven) purin shops a day.

Purin, as I soon discovered, is a competitive sport in Japan. There are rules. There are times. There are lines. Okay, no, there aren’t really that many lines but that’s because the pudding usually sells out before lines can even start to form. I loved eating purin in Tokyo. I highly recommend it, even if you only go to one purin place or just pick up purin from the combini. Purin is part of the Japanese soul and my search for perfect purin was something that brought me joy, deliciousness, and frustration, all in equal parts. Read on for all the purins I tried, as well as ratings on ambience, location, ease, taste, and aesthetics.
